# How to Install Openwrt on tplink_archer-c50-v3


WARNING: Do NOT flash the openwrt-19.07.2-ramips-mt76x8-tplink_c50-v3-squashfs-sysupgrade.bin from the “Release” section to the C50 v3 via the TPlink firmware's web GUI. It will brick the router!v.3

Installation is a bit tricky. Flash via WebGUI will not work because the OpenWrt firmware is not accepted by the router. But you can flash between different official firmwares. Unfortunately the smaller sysupgrade firmware is accepted by the stock router firmware but will brick the device. In this case you must use the TFTP recover method as described below. This is also the prefered way to flash the first OpenWrt firmware. Just use this image: https://downloads.openwrt.org/releases/18.06.8/targets/ramips/mt76x8/openwrt-18.06.8-ramips-mt76x8-tplink_c50-v3-squashfs-tftp-recovery.bin (check the hash!) rename it to tp_recovery.bin and put it in your tftpboot directory. To trigger the TFTP flashing just restart (on/off) the router and shortly after it turns on press the small reset button for a while. If everything is set up correct the router will load the image and restarts with a working OpenWrt firmware. One big problem is the 19.07.2 OpenWrt release. The performance in the 2.4 GHZ range is degraded/buggy. Instead of e.g. 10 Mbit you will get 0.5 Mbit. I cross checked this with different firmwares and clients. This is not tolerable and the problem not solved. But you can use instead the 18.06.8 release. It is even faster than the latest stock firmware.

